---
title: "OAuth2 Attested Key Based Client Authentication"
category: info

docname: draft-looker-oauth-attested-key-based-client-authentication-latest
submissiontype: IETF  # also: "independent", "IAB", or "IRTF"
number:
date:
v: 3
area: "Security"
workgroup: "Web Authorization Protocol"
venue:
  group: "Web Authorization Protocol"
  type: "Working Group"

author:
 -
    fullname: Tobias Looker
    organization: MATTR
    email: tobias.looker@mattr.global
 -
    fullname: Paul Bastian
    organization: Bundesdruckerei GmbH
    email: paul.bastian@bdr.de


normative:
  RFC3986: RFC3986
  RFC7800: RFC7800
  RFC7638: RFC7638
  RFC6755: RFC6755
  RFC7591: RFC7591
  RFC7519: RFC7519
  RFC8414: RFC8414
  DPOP:
    title: "OAuth 2.0 Demonstrating Proof-of-Possession at the Application Layer (DPoP)"
    author:
      -
        ins: D. Fett
        name: Daniel Fett
      -
        ins: B. Campbell
        name: Brian Campbell
      -
        ins: J. Bradley
        name: John Bradley
      -
        ins: T. Lodderstedt
        name: Torsten Lodderstedt
      -
        ins: M. Jones
        name: Mike Jones
      -
        ins: D. Waite
        name: Daniel Waite
informative:
  RFC6749: RFC6749
  RFC7521: RFC7521


--- abstract

This specification defines a new method of client authentication for OAuth {{RFC6749}} by extending the approach defined in {{RFC7521}}. This new method enables client deployments that are traditionally viewed as public clients to be able to authenticate with the authorization server through an attestation based authentication scheme.

--- middle

# Introduction

{{RFC7521}} defines a way for a client to include an assertion in a token request to an authorization server for the purposes of client authentication. This specification uses this framework to define a new assertion type that provides a way for a client instance to authenticate itself with the authorization server through an assertion that is bound to a public key (for proof of possession). This assertion is designated with the name of Client Attestation in this draft.

The following diagram depicts the overall architecture and protocol flow.

~~~ ascii-art

                              (3) Generate Client
                                  Attestation
                                  +-------+
                                  |       |
                                  |      \ /
                              +---------------+
                              |               |
                              |               |
                              |    Client     |
                              |    Backend    |
                              |               |
                              |               |
                              +---------------+
                                 / \      |
                                  |       |
                (2) Request       |       |     (4) Repond with
                Client            |       |     Generated Client
                Attestation       |       |     Attestation
                for generated     |       |
                key               |       |
                                  |       |
                                  |      \ /
                              +---------------+                          +---------------+
                              |               |                          |               |
                     +------->|               |<------------------------>|               |
  (1) Generate       |        |    Client     |    (6) Interaction       | Authorization |
  Attestation Key    |        |   Instance    |    using Client          |    Server     |
                     +--------|               |    Attestation + PoP     |               |
                              |               |    for authentication    |               |
                              +---------------+                          +---------------+
                                 / \      |
                                  |       |
                                  +-------+
                                (5) Generate
                           Client Attestation PoP
~~~

Note defining the protocol for steps 2 and 4, including how the client instance authenticates with the client backend is out of scope of this specification.

This specification only defines the format of the client assertion that a client instance uses to authenticate in its interactions with an authorization server (indicated in step 6), which is comprised of two key parts:

1. A Client Attestation JWT- produced by the client backend.
2. A Client Attestation Proof of Possession (PoP) - produced by the client instance.

# Conventions and Definitions

{::boilerplate bcp14-tagged}

# Terminology

Client Attestation JWT
   A JSON Web Token (JWT) generated by the client backend which is bound to a key managed by a client instance which can then be used by the instance for client authentication.

Client Attestation Proof of Possession (PoP) JWT
   A Proof of Possession generated by the client instance using the key that the Client Attestation JWT is bound to.

Client Instance Key
   A cryptographic, asymmetric key generated by the client instance and proven to the client backend. The public key is contained in the Client Attestation JWT and is used to sign the Client Attestation Proof of Possession.

# Client Authentication in the Token Request

To perform client authentication using this scheme, the client instance uses the following parameter values and encodings.

The value of the "client_assertion_type" is "urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-client-attestation".

The value of the "client_assertion" parameter contains two JWTs, separated by a '~' character. It MUST NOT contain more or less than precisely two JWTs seperated by the '~' character. The first JWT MUST be the client attestation JWT defined in [](#client-attestation-jwt), the second JWT MUST the client attestation PoP defined in [](#client-attestation-pop-jwt).

The following example demonstrates client authentication using this scheme during the presentation of an authorization code grant in an access token request (with extra line breaks for display purposes only):

~~~
POST /token.oauth2 HTTP/1.1
Host: as.example.com
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

grant_type=authorization_code&
code=n0esc3NRze7LTCu7iYzS6a5acc3f0ogp4&
client_assertion_type=urn%3Aietf%3Aparams%3Aoauth%3A
client-assertion-type%3Ajwt-client-attestation&
client_assertion=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6IjIyIn0.
eyJpc3Mi[...omitted for brevity...].
cC4hiUPo[...omitted for brevity...]~eyJzI1NiIsImtphbGciOimtpZCI6IjIyIn0.
IjIyIn0[...omitted for brevity...].
iOiJSUzI1[...omitted for brevity...]
~~~

## JWT Format and Processing Requirements {#jwt-format-and-processing-requirements}

In order to authenticate the client using this scheme, the authorization server MUST validate BOTH the JWTs present in the "client_assertion" parameter according to the criteria below.

It is RECOMMENDED that the authorization server validate the Client Attestation JWT prior to validating the Client Attestation PoP.

### Client Attestation JWT {#client-attestation-jwt}

The following rules apply to validating the client attestation JWT. Application of additional restrictions and policy are at the discretion of the authorization server.

1. The JWT MUST contain an "iss" (issuer) claim that contains a unique identifier for the entity that issued the JWT. In the absence of an application profile specifying otherwise, compliant applications MUST compare issuer values using the Simple String Comparison method defined in Section 6.2.1 of {{RFC3986}}.

2. The JWT MUST contain a "sub" (subject) claim with a value corresponding to the "client_id" of the OAuth client.

3. The JWT MUST contain an "exp" (expiration time) claim that limits the time window during which the JWT can be used.  The authorization server MUST reject any JWT with an expiration time that has passed, subject to allowable clock skew between systems.

4. The JWT MUST contain an "cnf" claim conforming {{RFC7800}} that conveys the key to be used for sender constraining tokens issued by the authorization server. The key MUST be expressed using the "jwk" representation.

5. The JWT MAY contain an "nbf" (not before) claim that identifies the time before which the token MUST NOT be accepted for processing.

6. The JWT MAY contain an "iat" (issued at) claim that identifies the time at which the JWT was issued.

7. The JWT MAY contain a "jti" (JWT ID) claim that provides a unique identifier for the token.  The authorization server MAY ensure that JWTs are not replayed by maintaining the set of used "jti" values for the length of time for which the JWT would be considered valid based on the applicable "exp" instant.

8. The JWT MAY contain other claims.

9. The JWT MUST be digitally signed using an asymmetric cryptographic algorithm. The authorization server MUST reject the JWT if it is using a Message Authentication Code (MAC) based algorithm. The authorization server MUST reject JWTs with an invalid signature.

10. The authorization server MUST reject a JWT that is not valid in all other respects per "JSON Web Token (JWT)" {{RFC7519}}.

The following example is the decoded header and payload of a JWT meeting the processing rules as defined above.

~~~
{
  "alg": "ES256",
  "kid": "11"
}
.
{
  "iss": "https://client.example.com",
  "sub": "https://client.example.com",
  "nbf":1300815780,
  "exp":1300819380,
  "cnf": {
    "jwk": {
      "kty": "EC",
      "use": "sig",
      "crv": "P-256",
      "x": "18wHLeIgW9wVN6VD1Txgpqy2LszYkMf6J8njVAibvhM",
      "y": "-V4dS4UaLMgP_4fY4j8ir7cl1TXlFdAgcx55o7TkcSA"
    }
  }
}
~~~

### Client Attestation PoP JWT {#client-attestation-pop-jwt}

The following rules apply to validating the Client Attestation JWT. Application of additional restrictions and policy are at the discretion of the Authorization Server.

1. The JWT MUST contain an "iss" (issuer) claim with a value corresponding to the "client_id" of the OAuth client.

2. The JWT MUST contain an "exp" (expiration time) claim that limits the time window during which the JWT can be used.  The authorization server MUST reject any JWT with an expiration time that has passed, subject to allowable clock skew between systems.  Note that the authorization server may reject JWTs with an "exp" claim value that is unreasonably far in the future.

3. The JWT MUST contain a "jti" (JWT ID) claim that provides a unique identifier for the token.  The authorization server MAY ensure that JWTs are not replayed by maintaining the set of used "jti" values for the length of time for which the JWT would be considered valid based on the applicable "exp" instant.

4. The JWT MUST contain an "aud" (audience) claim containing a value that identifies the authorization server as an intended audience. The {{RFC8414}} issuer identifier URL of the authorization server MUST be used as a value for an "aud" element to identify the authorization server as the intended audience of the JWT.

5. The JWT MAY contain an "nbf" (not before) claim that identifies the time before which the token MUST NOT be accepted for processing.

6. The JWT MAY contain an "iat" (issued at) claim that identifies the time at which the JWT was issued.  Note that the authorization server may reject JWTs with an "iat" claim value that is unreasonably far in the past.

7. The JWT MAY contain other claims.

8. The JWT MUST be digitally signed using an asymmetric cryptographic algorithm. The authorization server MUST reject the JWT if it is using a Message Authentication Code (MAC) based algorithm. The authorization server MUST reject JWTs with an invalid signature.

9. The public key used to verify the JWT MUST be the key located in the "cnf" claim of the corresponding client attestation JWT.

10. The authorization server MUST reject a JWT that is not valid in all other respects per "JSON Web Token (JWT)" {{RFC7519}}.

The following example is the decoded header and payload of a JWT meeting the processing rules as defined above.

~~~
{
  "alg": "ES256"
}
.
{
  "iss": "https://client.example.com",
  "aud": "https://as.example.com",
  "nbf":1300815780,
  "exp":1300819380,
}
~~~

# Implementation Considerations

## Re use of a Client Attestation JWT

Implementers should be aware that the design of this authentication mechanism deliberately allows for a client instance to re-use a single Client Attestation JWT in multiple interactions/requests with an authorization server, whilst producing a fresh Client Attestation PoP JWT. Client deployments should consider this when determining the validity period for issued Client Attestation JWTs as this ultimately controls how long a client instance can re-use a single Client Attestation JWT.

## Refresh token binding

Authorization servers issuing a refresh token in response to a token request using the "urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-client-attestation" client authentication method MUST bind the refresh token to the client instance, and NOT just the client as specified in section 6 [@!RFC6749]. To prove this binding, the client instance MUST authenticate itself to the authorization server when refreshing an access token using the "urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-client-attestation" authentication method. The client MUST also use the same Client Attestation that was used for authentication when the refresh token was issued.

# Privacy Considerations

## Client Instance Tracking Across Authorization Servers

Implementers should be aware that using the same client attestation across multiple authorization servers could result in correlation of the end user using the client instance through claim values (including the public key in the `cnf` claim). Client deployments are therefore RECOMMENDED to use different client attestations across different authorization servers.

# Security Considerations

TODO

# IANA Considerations

## Sub-Namespace Registration of urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-client-attestation

This section registers the value "client-assertion-type:jwt-client-attestation" in the IANA "OAuth URI" registry established by "An IETF URN Sub-Namespace for OAuth" {{RFC6755}}.

   o  URN: urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-client-attestation
   o  Common Name: OAuth2 Attested Key Based Client Authentication
      Authentication
   o  Change Controller: IESG
   o  Specification Document: TBC

## Registration of attest_jwt_client_auth Token Endpoint Authentication Method

This section registers the value "attest_jwt_client_auth" in the IANA "OAuth Token Endpoint Authentication Methods" registry established by OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol {{RFC7591}}.

o  Token Endpoint Authentication Method Name: "attest_jwt_client_auth"
o  Change Controller: IESG
o  Specification Document(s): TBC

--- back

# Acknowledgments
{:numbered="false"}

TODO acknowledge.
